---
end: "2007-03-01"
title: Software Team Leader
organisation: SEOS
organisation_url: http://www.seos.com
location: Burgess Hill, West Sussex, UK
---
SEOS makes display systems for flight simulators and planetariums. My role encompassed leading and managing a team of four software developers, ultimately responsible for all software delivered by the company.

As well as day-to-day C++/MFC software development, this role required me to take a lead in software design, scheduling, solving resource conflicts, defining processes, as well as in people management.

I introduced a number of improvements to the process of software production at the company, with the introduction of a version control system (Subversion) and a bug tracking system (Trac), all using freely-available open source software solutions. These improvements, at no capital cost to the company, vastly improved the reliability and predictability of the software development team. I also drove improvements in the software release process, testing procedures (including the creation of a dedicated software QA position), and personal development within the team. I introduced various Agile programming practices (including automated tools such as CruiseControl and CppUnit) with the aim of making the team more efficient and improving the quality of software releases.

I was responsible for growing an existing software base of around 300,000 lines of C++/MFC code to become more flexible, more powerful, and more easily extensible. This included refactoring the core application design, the introduction of a generic message-passing architecture, and the creation of an XML-based protocol for networked communications.

I also worked on interfacing with custom-built and COTS video processing and display hardware, often using TCP/IP and RS232 communication protocols, and on automatic setup and calibration of both individual hardware elements and complete display systems, using computer vision techniques such as contour and shape detection.